h2. SoftDestroyable

Allows one to annotate an ActiveRecord module as being soft_destroyable.

h3. Why another soft_destroy implementation?

This gem was inspired by "acts_as_paranoid":http://github.com/technoweenie/acts_as_paranoid and
"rails3_acts_as_paranoid":https://github.com/goncalossilva/rails3_acts_as_paranoid, both of which are great gems.
I found that rails3_acts_as_paranoid did not handle associations the way I wanted (at least at the time I wrote this),
so I wrote this implementation instead.   

h3. Details

This changes the behavior of the +destroy+ method to become a soft-destroy, which
will set the +deleted_at+ attribute to <tt>Time.now</tt>, and the +deleted+ attribute to <tt>true</tt>
It exposes the +revive+ method to reverse the effects of +destroy+ (for :dependent => :destroy associations only).
It also exposes the +destroy!+ method which can be used to <b>really</b> destroy an object and it's associations.

+revive+ will not revive child associations which have been destroyed by actions other a destroy of the parent.
This requires the column attribute +revive_with_parent+.

Standard ActiveRecord destroy callbacks are _not_ called, however you can override +before_soft_destroy+, +after_soft_destroy+,
and +before_destroy!+ on your soft_destroyable models.

Standard ActiveRecord dependent options :destroy, :restrict, :nullify, :delete_all, and :delete are supported and will
behave as expected.  +revive+ will _not_ undo the effects of +nullify+, +delete_all+, and +delete+.
+restrict+ is effected by the +deleted?+ state.  In other words, deleted child models will not raise a restriction when
destroying the parent.

The +delete+ operation is _not_ modified by this module.

The operations: +destroy+, +destroy!+, and +revive+ are automatically delegated to the dependent association records.
in a single transaction.

Scopes are provided for +deleted+ and +not_deleted+.   The standard +all+ scope is not polluted, so will still
return all records, deleted or not.

Author: Michael Kintzer

h3. Examples

* Migrate your model to add +deleted+ and +deleted_at+ attributes.   There are helpers provided for this:

<pre>
<code>
  create_table :mytable do |t|
    t.soft_destroyable
  end
</code>
</pre>

<pre>
<code>
  change_table :mytable do |t|
    t.soft_destroyable
  end
</code>
</pre>

* Annotate your model to be soft_destroyable

<pre>
<code>
  class Parent
    has_many :children, :dependent => :restrict
    has_many :animals, :dependent => :nullify
    soft_destroyable
    ...
</code>
</pre>

* That's it!

h3. Testing

* make sure you have rails and sqlite gems installed.
* rake test

h3. Note on Patches/Pull Requests

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request

h3. Contributors

* "Mack Talcott":https://github.com/mtalcott

 h3. Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010-11 Michael Kintzer, released under the MIT license
